Title: Aruba - Take 2
Date: 2009-10-12 12:36
Author: cpatti
Category: Personal
Tags: aruba, beach, travel, tropical, vacation
Slug: aruba-take-2

Just (well, a week ago, but work was blazing white hot upon my return,
so no time to write :) got back from a week in Aruba, and my experience
this time around was **completely** different...

<!--more-->

[caption id="attachment\_52" align="alignnone" width="225"
caption="Greetings From Aruba!"]![Greetings From
Aruba!](http://www.feoh.org/wp-content/uploads/2009/10/photo-225x300.jpg "GreetingsFromAruba")[/caption]

This time, we rented a time share my wife's boss graciously allowed us
to occupy at well below market rates.

It was positively awesome.  We were at the [Playa
Linda](http://www.playalinda.com/ "Playa Linda Time Share") time share,
sandwiched between some of the better hotels along the beach (We had the
Westin on one side, and the Hyatt, Radison, Occidental and finally the
Taj/Ritz on the other.).

I had always been rather down on time sharing - who wants to go to the
same place every year? Well, my eyes have been opened.  We're not about
to go running to buy one (We still want to visit a bunch more places
first) but I can now absolutely see settling down someplace that you
love to come back to every year.

The unit we rented was very nice.  You get a separate sleeping area, a
nice little living room with 2 couches (one fold out in case you have
guests) and a decent size LCD TV.  The kitchenette is equipped with
everything you'd need to keep house for a week - pots, pans, dishes,
silverware, etc.

We had amazing weather while we were there, it was in the 90's most of
the time, but with those trade marked Aruban trade winds, it didn't feel
opressively hot at all (Though you really have to watch out for the
tropical sun, it can kick your butt :).

The beach where we were sat in between two piers, so there's no terrible
rip tide threatening to pull you out to sea.  The sand is coral, rather
than granite based like the beaches in NH around here, so it's silky
smooth.

We spent our days going from pool to beach, seeing the sights on the
island and having dinner either with our hosts (who graciously cooked
two amazing meals for us while we were there) or taking advantage of
some of the excellent restaurants on the island like [Madame
Jeanette's](http://www.madamejanette.info/ "Madame Jeanette's") - it's a
uniquely Caribbean restaurant in that the seating is largely outdoors. 
If you visit the island, that's definitely one not to miss.

I wish I'd taken a camera other than my iPhone along with us (I kept it
in the room most of the time for fear it would melt :) there was
wildlife everythere.  Sand Pipers, Turns, and Iguanas were all sharing
the pool and beach with us, which my wife and I enjoyed immensely (Some
other guests not so much, people get freaked out by lizards for some
reaosn :)

Anyway, it was a week of utter fun and relaxation in the sun, and we'll
definitely be back.
