Title: Face, meet Mr. Concrete wall.
Date: 2010-06-29 15:36
Author: feoh
Category: Personal
Tags: astronomy, career, courses, degree, goals, life, math, science, work
Slug: face-meet-mr-concrete-wall

As I mentioned here previously, my last big job search after I got laid
off from MIT was decidedly Not Fun...

<!--more-->  
I ended up taking a job I would normally never take, because I felt
utterly backed up against a wall by the economy, increasing competition
in the tech sector, and the big skeleton rattling around in my closet -
the lack of a degree.

I got turned down by 2 or 3 prospective employers because of this, which
is something that hasn't happened to me for a very long time.

So, when I took said job, I steeled myself for the worst and called my
old school, Worcester State College.

The result was not at all what I was expecting. I **still** only need
two courses to get my bachelors degree!

I got all the paperwork filled out, jumped through all the necessary
hoops and found out that I (still) need a science, and a science with a
lab in order to graduate.

That information in hand, I went casting around for a science course I
could take. Not easy, many of them required calculus, and those that
didn't hab lab periods smack dab in the middle of my work day.

I found one course, Astronomy, that only claimed to require College
Algebra and was taught Tuesday and Thursday evenings. So, I leapt.

**BIG** mistake.

The course started a week and a half ago. Since that time, I have poured
\~30 hours and a number of sleepless nights into it, and unfortunately I
have to admit that there is eactly zero chance of my passing this
course. No amount of effort, lack of sleep, or heroics short of quitting
my job (Freaking unlikely since I'm INCREDIBLY happy where I am now. I
escaped from Windows enterprise hell and am working for an amazing
company, [Blue State Digital](http://www.bluestatedigital.com/).) will
save me.

I had been expecting the math to kick my ass, but in the end analyais, I
could handle that just fine! There wasn't a single bit of algebraic
manipulation I couldn't get past with a little work and some Google
thrown in for good measure.

It was the formulas! Crazy, INSANE formulas crawling across the page and
eating my poor addled brain like some kind of scene out of Dawn of the
Dead.

F~ev~ / F~em~ = ( G M~v~ M~e~ / R~ev~^2^ ) / ( G M~m~ M~e~ / R~em~^2^)

I have to withdraw from the battlefiend this time - I've lost the
skirmish, but I am bound and determined to win the war!

I'll take some time to recover, take a fresh look at the problem, and
talk to my academic advisor to see if I can apply some 'life credit' or
something, or at the very least not bludgeon myself senseless over my
lack of higher math, so I can finish up the silly degree and get on with
my life!
