Title: Oh yeah! Laurie Anderson is coming to Boston!
Date: 2008-02-06 11:59
Author: feoh
Category: Art
Tags: art, boston, concert, homeland, laurie anderson, music, performance, privacy, rock
Slug: oh-yeah-laurie-anderson-is-coming-to-boston

Years ago, when I first came to the Boston area, Laurie Anderson held a
concert at MIT...

<!--more-->

At the time I thought nothing of it. Laurie Anderson was just a wacky
artist whose music friends of mine adored in college, but I never really
understood the appeal of.

Fast forward several years and a whole lot of living, and zoom in on me
buying the "Wired Magazine Presents: Music Futurists" CD. It was a
collection of all manner of forward thinking artists - names like Brian
Eno, Devo, Beck, Thomas Dolby, and of course, Laurie Anderson.

Of all the music on that CD, Laurie Anderson's \_O Superman: Massonet\_
really resonated with a lot I was thinking and feeling at the time. I
was both impressed and intrigued, and decided it was time to revisit my
now many years stale distaste for her work.

So I went out and bought one of her more seminal albums, \_Big Science\_
and was promptly blown away.

Laurie Anderson stands apart from the pack because she makes music that
makes you think. I'm not saying she's the only artist that embodies that
characteristic, but she's definitely the poster child.

And now, she's coming to Boston on Saturday, March 29th to the Opera
House - an incredible venue if you've never been. The acoustics are
amazing, the environs are opulent and richly detailed in that way only
old music and art houses can be, and I can't think of an artist in the
modern musical field who might use them to better advantage.

My ever supportive wife (She's yet to hear any Laurie Anderson - I'm
thinking I'll let her be surprised and see how she reacts :) and I are
going, and I am psyched!

Let me know if any of my readers are planning on being there, it would
be neat to compare notes.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When love is gone, there's always justice. And when justice is gone,
there's always force. And when force is gone, there's always Mom. Hi,
Mom!  
--Laurie Anderson

</p>
People are really suffering these days. There's a lot of corporate
triumph and a lot of personal despair as they wonder what are they
working for.  
--Laurie Anderson
