Title: Sleeeepy (And old :P)
Date: 2011-07-18 15:56
Author: feoh
Category: Personal
Tags: aging, career, exercise, health, sleep, work
Slug: sleeeepy-and-old-p

I've noticed that as I get older, getting enough good sleep has become
more and more of an issue...<!--more-->As I get older, I find my need
for sleep decidedly increasing. Not so much the amount of sleep, that
has remained relatively stagnant at around 6 hours minimum (with a
minimum of 1 or 2 8+ hour nights thrown in for good measure) but the
degree to which the lack of the required sleep effects me and my ability
to do my job.

When I was younger, I could pull two or three all nighters in a week
with virtually no ill effects. Now, a night with 4 or 5 hours sleep, or
a night where my sleep is disturbed by something or other has a real and
noticeable effect on me the next day.

I know all the excess weight I'm carrying around isn't helping, and
hence I've been exercising religiously, burning about 300 calories per
session, which has definitely begun making a dent in my overall weight
(I won't mention numbers yet for fear of jinxing it. I find it's best
not to talk progress until I've lost a truly significant amount of and
kept it off for a while.)

We bought a treadmill and an exercise bike about 6 months ago now, and
those have been invaluable. The ability to exercise at home at my own
convenience means I can stumble out of bed, down the stairs, and onto
the treadmill so that before I ever have the chance to talk myself out
of it, I'm on the treadmill or the bike chugging away.

So, thankfully things are moving in a positive direction. I just have to
keep at it, not fall off the horse (again having the equipment in the
house eliminates a myriad of excuses!) and be patient.

It's heartening for me to see a bunch of the younger folks I work with
decidedly not falling into the same trap many geeky people from my
generation were bitten by. They're incredibly health conscious, and
pretty much all have incredibly rigorous work out regimens and are
scrupulous about tracking their weight (One guy has his bathroom scale
broadcast his current weight to his Twitter feed. Think I'll pass on
that one, thanks :)). I know we've all heard the saw about establishing
good habits early, but in this case it can't be emphasized enough.

Anyway, pardon the slightly unfocused ramble, but this stuff has been
rattling around my head wanting to be written for a while.

Hope everyone's enjoying their summer!
