Title: Will Java survive Oracle?
Date: 2010-10-06 18:00
Author: feoh
Category: Geekery
Tags: acquisition, community, development, Java, JavaOne, Oracle, Sun, support, technology
Slug: untitled

When Oracle bought Sun, I was initially fairly bullish on the idea - I
thought Oracle might temper some of Sun's whimsical brainstorming turned
projects that it poured resources into, and create a leaner, meaner Sun.

<!--more-->  
Well, if initial indications continue to hold, they may be going too
far, and throwing the baby out with the bath water.

I've heard from several people who returned from JavaOne about what a
disappointing experience it was, and how they felt marginalized and
overrun by the suit wearing denizens that have populated Oracle Develop
for years.

I wasn't surprised when I heard that Oracle was folding JavaOne into its
main conference offering, but I \*WAS\* surprised that they didn't take
great pains to ensure that the experience for Java developers was no
less useful, fun and all around worth it to developers as it has been in
the past.

I would think they'd be working overtime to convince developers that
Java is still a first class, thriving platform worth investing in, not
an also ran to Oracle's existing product suite.

To be fair, I'm observing from a slight distance these days as I work
for [Blue State Digital](http://www.bluestatedigital.com/), an
incredible company doing amazing things with PHP (which has come a long,
LONG way while I wasn't looking - I'll be posting about that soon), but
I still feel like I have a lot invested in Java - I spent a decade out
of my career living in that space, so I would love to see it continue to
thrive, not just survive.

Clearly, Java isn't going away any time soon. In my opinion it's a great
platform (not free of warts, sure, but name one that is) but this does
make me wonder about people choosing a platform for new projects - there
are lots of choices out there today, many of which are lighter weight
and much less fragmented than what Java has to offer.

Oracle needs to make up its mind about whether it sees Java as a crown
jewel or a sick aunt to be locked away in a drafty room and checked on
once every few days.

Or maybe it already has, only time will tell.
